draft of new blog post about automating more automation (#5038)
block/goose: documentation/blog/2025-10-08-recipe-cookbook-generator/index.md

Myself, I had over a hundred goose sessions and as many megabytes of conversation data. I was sitting on a goldmine of potential automation. A coworker suggested something brilliant: "What if goose could analyze your sessions and build recipes automatically?" Wait, wait, wait!! Create a personalized cookbook based on my own session history?? Yes, please! Let's build a 'cookbook generator' recipe!

<!--truncate-->

## The Problem with Manual Recipe Creation

Creating recipes manually is time-consuming, especially if you're looking through dozens or hundreds of previous sessions like I was.

- Figure out which sessions were successful or not
- Extract the core workflow from lengthy conversations  
- Identify similar but not identical workflows and figure out what should be parameterized
- Write proper YAML syntax with templating, maybe build subrecipes?
- Test and refine the recipe structure

Isn't this the goal of having an AI agent in the first place? To save time and effort?

> Let's boose our productivity gains by implementing some automation. We're gonna get goose to write a recipe to write OTHER recipes!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's boost our productivity by implementing some automation. We're gonna get goose to write a recipe that creates OTHER recipes!
```

## What is the Cookbook Generator Recipe?

The "cookbook generator" I'm describing here is a way to get goose to look at your previous sessions, analyze them for commonalities, and automatically create new recipes from common patterns. It's automation that creates automation -- meta-programming at its finest.

> I'm going to share my own cookbook generator at the end.

Reviewer: Add link?

Reviewer: I think so

Instead, I wanted gosoe to focus on workflows that appear multiple times, and ask me to confirm any cases that it was unsure about.

### 3. Parameterization Logic

The tool should automatically identify good candidates for parameters. I had ideas around the following things:

- Was I accessing file paths and directory structures regularly?
- Were there specific document types I was accessing, or trying to create? (blog posts, videos, documentation)
- Was I regularly accessing the same kinds of URLs and external resources
- Were there any common project names or topics, like MCP?

### 4. Template Generation

:::tip
I wanted goose to write all the recipes for me, but to be as up-to-date as possible. I cloned the [goose repository](https://github.com/block/goose) and told goose to examine its own source code to learn how to successfully create recipes, and be sure to use proper YAML syntax.
:::

From that, I had goose think about the following ideas as it considered how to make my recipes:

- Parameter validation and defaults
- Conditional logic for different scenarios
- Loop constructs for repetitive tasks

> - Sub-recipe integration where appropriate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Subrecipe integration where appropriate
```

- **Image Generation**: I need thumbnail ideas for videos and blog posts, but the style and focus can vary widely. This recipe lets me specify the theme and mood.
- **Social Media Posts**: I struggle a lot with coming up with catchy social media posts, so I want to give goose the kind of content (blog, video, etc), point it at the content (in the case of video, I give it my narration script), and have it generate many different options that I can choose from later.

The recipes were about 90% workable, and I went through and refined some of those a bit further.

### Do the recipes ACTUALLY work though?

- The outline for this blog post was created by the outline generator; I always hand-write my blog posts.
- The thumbnail on this blog post was generated in part by the image generator (the conveyor belt)
- You found this blog post because of the social media post generator; that's 100% goose writing that for me!
- The short video you saw in the social media post that brought you here had its script outlined by the outline generator

> - The longer YouTube video the outlines more of this was also outlined by the outline generator

Reviewer: a bit garbled
